Add docs for request timeouts middleware (#29068)
dotnet/AspNetCore.Docs: aspnetcore/performance/timeouts.md

The `RequestTimeoutPolicy` has a property that can automatically set the status code when a timeout is triggered.

:::code language="csharp" source="~/performance/timeouts/samples/8.x/Program.cs" id="definepolicies2" highlight="4":::

:::code language="csharp" source="~/performance/timeouts/samples/8.x/Program.cs" id="usedefault2" highlight="4":::

## Use a delegate in a policy

The `RequestTimeoutPolicy` has a `WriteTimeoutResponse` property that can be used to customize the response when a timeout is triggered.

:::code language="csharp" source="~/performance/timeouts/samples/8.x/Program.cs" id="definepolicies2" highlight="8-11":::

:::code language="csharp" source="~/performance/timeouts/samples/8.x/Program.cs" id="usepolicy2" highlight="4,7":::

## Disable timeouts

To disable all timeouts including the default global timeout, use the `[DisableRequestTimeout]` attribute or the `DisableRequestTimeout` extension method:

:::code language="csharp" source="~/performance/timeouts/samples/8.x/Program.cs" id="disablebyattr" highlight="1":::

:::code language="csharp" source="~/performance/timeouts/samples/8.x/Program.cs" id="disablebyext" highlight="5":::

## Cancel a timeout

> To cancel a timeout that has already been triggered, use the `DisableTimeout` method on `IHttpRequestTimeoutFeature`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To cancel a timeout that has already been started, use the `DisableTimeout` method on `IHttpRequestTimeoutFeature`. Timeouts cannot be canceled after they've expired.
```

This article explains how to configure the timeout middleware. You can set request timeouts for individual endpoints or controllers, and set a global default.

The timeout middleware can be used in all types of ASP.NET Core apps: Minimal API, Web API with controllers, MVC, and Razor Pages. The sample app is a Minimal API, but every timeout feature it illustrates is also supported in the other app types.

Request timeouts are in the `Microsoft.AspNetCore.Http.Timeouts` namespace.

## Add the middleware to the app

Add the request timeouts middleware to the service collection by calling `AddRequestTimeouts`.

Add the middleware to the request processing pipeline by calling `UseRequestTimeouts`>.

> [!NOTE]
> * In apps that explicitly call `UseRouting`, `UseRequestTimeouts` must be called after `UseRouting`.

Adding the middleware to the app doesn't automatically start triggering timeouts. Timeout limits have to be explicitly configured.

## Configure one endpoint or page

> For minimal API apps, configure an endpoint to time out by calling `WithRequestTimeouts`, or by applying the `[RequestTimeouts]` attribute, as shown in the following example:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For minimal API apps, configure an endpoint to time out by calling `WithRequestTimeout`, or by applying the `[RequestTimeout]` attribute, as shown in the following example:
```

The default timeout applies to endpoints that don't have a timeout specified. The following endpoint code checks for a timeout although it doesn't call the extension method or apply the attribute. The global timeout configuration applies, so the code checks for a timeout:

:::code language="csharp" source="~/performance/timeouts/samples/8.x/Program.cs" id="usedefault" :::

## Specify the status code in a policy

The `RequestTimeoutPolicy` has a property that can automatically set the status code when a timeout is triggered.

:::code language="csharp" source="~/performance/timeouts/samples/8.x/Program.cs" id="definepolicies2" highlight="4":::

:::code language="csharp" source="~/performance/timeouts/samples/8.x/Program.cs" id="usedefault2" highlight="4":::

## Use a delegate in a policy

The `RequestTimeoutPolicy` has a `WriteTimeoutResponse` property that can be used to customize the response when a timeout is triggered.

:::code language="csharp" source="~/performance/timeouts/samples/8.x/Program.cs" id="definepolicies2" highlight="8-11":::

:::code language="csharp" source="~/performance/timeouts/samples/8.x/Program.cs" id="usepolicy2" highlight="4,7":::

## Disable timeouts

> To disable all timeouts including the default global timeout, use the `[DisableRequestTimeout]` attribute:

Author: Thanks, I added that.
